---
layout: post
title:      "A Lifetime of Firsts"
date:       2020-05-23 11:06:20 -0400
permalink:  a_lifetime_of_firsts
---


When you are the first to discover electricity, send a man to the moon, or in my case, the first to go to college, you're venturing into unknown territory. Being the first one to do anything can be so thrilling. You have beaten the odds and surpassed expectations set for you. You're feeling almost unstoppable and ready to forge your own path. But all the butterflies and excitement that come with the new often make you forget about all the challenges that also come with it. There is no knowledge about what lies ahead. For the curious and ambitious, the newness is enough to forget about the other stuff. We barrel forward, knowing that even though the territory is unknown, it's what we've spent our whole lives preparing for. 

I grew up in the Bronx, NY, with two parents who dropped out of community college when they got pregnant with my older sister. My neighborhood, like all the other ones in the Bronx, was riddled with poverty, and violence, and all of the things that come along with poverty and violence. I am a second generation Puertorican and Dominican woman, and so very proud to be.  School had always been the key to success. As a life-long learner I loved everything about school, and there was never a second thought about continuing my education post-secondary. I'd gotten a scholarship to the University of Vermont (a state I'd never even been to, let alone thought about living in) and was all set to go. My senior year was a particularly turbulent one, and Sra. Cotto had been there for me in a way no other adult had. My Assistant Principal Mr. Santiago saw how hard things were for me, and made a point to be a pillar of support whenever I need him. So, choosing a major was relatively easy. I'd always envied how the teachers had all the control in the classroom and got to make the rules and boss everyone around, and decided in the 2nd grade that was what I wanted to do. I've always been an avid reader with a love for writing, so I declared a major in Secondary Education with a concentration in English. I loved my professors and the content, and absolutely loved my student teaching experience even though it was the most exhausted I'd been in my life. And on May 18, 2014, had no reservations about the path I'd chosen.

My first year teaching was rewarding, but the way it drained me was unexpected. And after my second year teaching, I knew I couldn't do it much longer. (I could go on about the issues in public education, but that's less of a blog post and more of a TED talk.) But I was afraid. Teaching was extremely stressful, but I was good at it. I'd spent countless hours perfecting my craft, forming relationships with students and other teachers, and becoming a part of the community. And here was a new, even scarier first: **what would I do afterwards?** I didn't know any teachers who had transitioned out of the classroom without going back to school first, but I didn't know what to do. In high school I'd had teachers and guidance counselors to help me with my new first, but who was going to help me figure it out now? 

A friend suggested I look into a coding bootcamp. I'd never even heard of it, but he insisted that it would be a viable option for someone who was looking for a career switch. I started out on FreeCodeCamp.com, and after a couple hours thought to myself, why does this feel so familiar? My junior year in college I took this weird hybrid of an English/Coding class, where we had weekly blog assignments that were graded not just on content, but style. The English portion wasn't what I remember the class for, but creating and manipulating the content to do what I wanted to do was the exciting part. I'd completely forgotten that I'd created my own webpage, published content, and created a way to interact with my site visitors, all from scratch. It was pretty basic stuff, but I loved being able to solve these problems and create this cool and unique thing just by typing some keys in a text editor. Because it was labeled as a class for English credit, I never thought it took any coding knowledge, just Myspace knowledge. I wanted to keep going.

So, after about a month of heavy coding, networking with people in tech/transition on Career Karma, and guidance from its CEO (big shoutout to Ruben Harris!) I'd settled on the Flatiron school. And here we are :)



``https://www.publicschoolreview.com/blog/the-15-biggest-failures-of-the-american-public-education-system
